Well, I guess it should be okay like this.
Naoya, you look like you’re having a hard time.
What are you doing?
Kasumi, I’m making a poster for an upcoming event in my club.
I asked Aoi to do it, but she refused because she was busy.
That’s why you’re drawing the poster yourself.
It looks pretty good. Wait, can you draw, Naoya?
No, not at all.
Then what happened to this drawing?
Generative AI is very popular these days, right?
That’s what I’m using.
You can specify the content of the drawing you want it to draw,
and it will create an image for you to match that.
See, like this.
Wow, that’s interesting.
Though I’m not an artist,
I thought I could make a poster with this.
In any case, the terms of use allow AI-generated images to be
used commercially or for the purpose of attracting customers.
Come to think of it, something like this came up in our
Data Science and AI classes.
The professor said that by collecting a large number of pictures
and drawings and having AI learn from them,
it is now possible to have AI draw pictures.
It’s amazing how suddenly something like this can be created.
It seems that AI can imitate the style of old painters
or something like that.
But I feel like I’ve seen this picture somewhere before.
Really? I didn’t give any special instructions.
Look at this. Don’t they look exactly like the people
in this picture, like how they dress and the composition?
It’s true, they look alike.
This is an album cover of an old CD,
and it seems to be quite famous.
Isn’t it bad to put this poster up or show it on the Internet?
It might infringe copyright.
What? Why?
I didn’t use this cover illustration as the source material.
I just entered a few keywords and specified what kind of picture
I wanted.
Hmm...
Here’s something.
He came out without being called.
This AI used to create the image by Naoya
is called generative AI,
and it can learn from text, images, videos, and music.
Based on these, it can create new things.
Until now, only people can make such things,
and the things they created have been treated as copyrighted
works and protected by copyright.
Currently, there are various discussions on how creations by AI
will be treated in the future and the relationship between AI and
copyright.
There are several requirements and standards for copyright infringement.
Oh, it’s a woman this time.
Yes, I will explain the details.
These are the requirements and standards for copyright
infringement.
It requires two conditions: (1) similarity and (2) access.
Similarity means that it is similar, mainly that the creative
expressions of the copyrighted work are used.
Access is based on existing works.
These have been used as criteria for copyright infringement
in the past,
and it is believed that the treatment of AI paintings will remain
the same as human paintings.
As Kasumi pointed out, the similarity with existing works will
likely be an issue.
It may be challenging to judge access as well.
For example, to create this AI image, it may be related
to whether the illustration of the CD cover,
which was thought to be similar, was used as learning data.
Actually, I didn’t know about the CD cover,
so it’s not an imitation or a copy.
I just gave instructions for my image to AI,
and it came out similar.
I know Naoya didn’t copy it, and I guess it’s just a coincidence...
There may be some idea that AI has imitated.
AI learns from pictures and photographs created by humans
and then creates an image from them, right?
What if it contains copyrighted material in it...?
That may be true,
but you can’t be really sure that the AI actually imitated it, right?
Maybe. So, I think it might be a bad idea to show this drawing,
but I can’t say for sure that it’s not possible.
Hmm, I see. Then, I guess I should give up on this drawing.
But I don’t think it’s possible to create something that
doesn’tresemble any picture that exists in the world.
It’s true. It’s impossible, or rather, it’s not clear in many ways.
How should we think about this?
Since copyright is a right stipulated by law,
the final judgment of a copyright infringement will be rendered
through legal discussions and court proceedings.
This is a process that takes a long time with experts.
Therefore, it is almost impossible for the public to properly judge
and resolve whether there is copyright infringement.
In addition,
apart from whether or not it is a copyright infringement,
there are also many cases, especially on the Internet,
in which works that are similar to other people’s works,
are suspected of being plagiarisms
and thereby create a backlash online.
These are problems that have existed for a long time.
It seems that new issues are emerging
because it has become possible to generate paintings
and other creations using AI,
but whether you draw a picture by hand or use AI to create an
image, considering the possibility of copyright infringement,
the idea of what should be done should not change significantly
from before.
If a picture drawn by you or an image generated by AI
is similar to another person’s work;
in order to avoid any trouble such as online backlash,
a safe and rational choice would be to not make it public.
This is a judgment based on a different standard from the law.
Furthermore, there are ongoing discussions about the handling
and role of AI within society.
The thinking on AI creations may change in the future.
Therefore, it is better to pay attention to such trends in discussions and amendments to the Copyright Law.
Yes, we got it!